# What is DXP Cloud?

DXP Cloud is an enterprise cloud platform that simplifies the deployment,
management, and scaling of Liferay DXP. 

Launching your DXP could never be easier with this secure, reliable PaaS 
solution that provides autoscaling, development tools, environments, monitoring
and much more, all designed with years of in-house Liferay expertise.

## Features

The DXP Cloud platform comes packed with a suite of features that enables DevOps
teams to not only deploy faster, but with more confidence and security. Below
are some of the features we provide out-of-the-box.

**Autoscaling**: Dynamically scale up bandwidth and compute capacity to maintain
steady performance through traffic peaks. Liferay DXP Cloud helps IT teams
automatically address unexpected traffic flows in order to avoid service
disruptions and to manually downscale resources that are no longer needed.
Teams receive automatic notifications and email alerts regarding instance usage
so they can manage resources with confidence.

**Governance**: Administrators are empowered to deliver maximum productivity and
security by easily adding or removing people from teams and managing permissions 
within each project environment. With Liferay DXP Cloud there is no need to 
develop and deploy a separate permissioning tool to fit your organization's 
DevOps workflow; this functionality is delivered out-of-the-box.

**High Availability**: Deliver high availability, zero downtime deployments to
ensure that mission-critical sites stay online. Liferay DXP Cloud supports the
creation of fault tolerance processes to meet organizationsâ€™ unique needs and
detect and repair common server problems as they occur. This helps prevent small 
programming errors from accumulating and causing a server crash, without the 
need to allocate additional resources to do so.

**Monitoring**: Liferay DXP Cloud delivers detailed performance metrics so IT
teams can understand the health and compute requirements of their sites over
time. Out-of the-box integration with Dynatrace allows administrators to quickly 
understand CPU and memory usage, data transfer rates and more.

**Application Management**: Administrators can also keep track of application
performance with real-time build and deployment logs. DevOps teams are able to
analyze stack trace and troubleshoot bugs from their web console and 
command line interface or download the logs for use in their preferred tools.

**Backup and Recovery**: Liferay DXP Cloud provides automatic, secure backups to
ensure that organizational data and documents are constantly protected and ready 
for restoration in case of critical data corruption or failure. Encryption at 
rest ensures that sensitive data saved on disks is not readable by any user or 
application without a valid key. Liferay DXP Cloud delivers data through 
multi-region architecture to ensure high availability.

**Security**: Liferay DXP Cloud provides automatic, secure backups to ensure
that organizational data and documents are constantly protected and ready for
restoration in case of critical data corruption or failure. Encryption at rest
ensures that sensitive data saved on disks is not readable by any user or 
application without a valid key. 
